Blood donations have great impact on the lives of people all around the world, including remedying childbirth complications as well as treating blood diseases and cancer. Due to blood shortage, mostly people waste their loved ones. According to news resources in 2012 blood bank attendants claim that shortage of blood was the biggest factor in causing death for dengue patients.  Apart from that hemorrhaging (blood loss) cause 25% of the complications during delivery which ultimately causes maternal deaths. For every second someone needs blood to save their life. 
In Pakistan, people face a lot of problems when they need blood. Major problem includes the unavailability of blood donors at the time of emergency, so people need to be encouraged to voluntarily involve in this activity and save other persons' life. People mostly get blood from their relatives or friends, but issues like mismatching of blood types create trouble. For this purpose, there should be some contact information of other people (not necessarily relatives or friends) who can donate blood instantly at the time of need. Because of the lack of bridge between donors and receptors, there is a dire need to properly design some platform where blood is easily and urgently available to the needy persons. 
In Pakistan, there exist some online websites and organizations like pakblood.com, idonate.pk, blood.pk, pakdonor.com etc. which are working on this very issue. Despite the fact that some of these systems are quite functional but the existing system require sign up for the blood receivers too and most of them are just web portals. People don't want to waste their time opening the browser, creating account and then search for required donors. 
With the increasing number of mortality rate due to shortage of blood in this modern world, where there are lots of advancements and research already been done, it is a big question mark for all of us; why we are not able to overcome this problem. So many researches & studies have already been done in this context, what are the shortfalls of those studies; to analyze those in different dimensions in terms of technology is most important. Increasingly, technology is being seen as powerful development tool to solve any problem. We believe this study would definitely be able to solve this problem which slowly & gradually would affect the society in positive way. The objective of this project is to interpret, evaluate & analyze the root causes and to find out best possible solutions to the problem in terms of technology.
